# Hosseini-Shakib_etal_2022_Nat_Clim_Chang

**Uncertainties surrounding flood hazard estimates is the primary driver of riverine flood risk projections**

Iman Hosseini-Shakib<sup>1\*</sup>, Sanjib Sharma<sup>1</sup>, Benjamin Seiyon Lee<sup>2</sup>, Vivek Anand Srikrishnan<sup>3</sup>, Robert Nicholas<sup>1,4</sup>, and Klaus Keller<sup>1,5</sup>

<sup>1 </sup> Earth and Environmental Systems Institute, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA, USA <br />
<sup>2 </sup> Department of Statistics, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA, USA <br />
<sup>3 </sup> Department of Biological & Environmental Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA <br />
<sup>4 </sup> Department of Meteorology and Atmospheric Science, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA, USA <br />
<sup>5 </sup> Thayer School of Engineering, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH, USA

\* corresponding author:  ishakib@gmail.com 

## Abstract
Flooding drives considerable risks. Designing strategies to manage these risks is complicated by the often large uncertainty surrounding flood-risk projections. Uncertainty surrounding flood risks can stem, for example, from choices regarding boundary conditions, model structures, and parameters. Dynamic interactions among hazard, exposure, and vulnerability can modulate the uncertainty surrounding flood risks. A quantitative understanding of which factors drive uncertainties surrounding flood hazards and risks can inform the design of mission-oriented research. Here characterize key uncertainties impacting flood-risk projections and perfor a global sensitivity analysis to characterize the most important drivers of the uncertainties surrounding flood hazards and risks. We find that the flood risk model is sensitive to upstream discharge, river bed elevation, channel roughness and digital elevation model resolution. 

## Journal reference
Hosseini-Shakib, I., Sharma, S., Lee, B.S., Srikrishnan, V.A., Nicholas, R., & Keller, K. (2022). Uncertainties surrounding flood hazard estimates is the primary driver of riverine flood risk projections. _Nature Climate Change_, Under review

## Code reference
References for each minted software release for all code involved.  

These are generated by Zenodo automatically when conducting a release when Zenodo has been linked to your GitHub repository. The Zenodo references are built by setting the author order in order of contribution to the code using the author's GitHub user name.  This citation can, and likely should, be edited without altering the DOI.

If you have modified a codebase that is outside of a formal release, and the modifications are not planned on being merged back into a version, fork the parent repository and add a `.<shortname>` to the version number of the parent and construct your own name.  For example, `v1.2.5.hydro`.

Human, I.M. (2021, April 14). Project/repo:v0.1.0 (Version v0.1.0). Zenodo. http://doi.org/some-doi-number/zenodo.7777777

## Data reference

### Input data
Reference for each minted data source for your input data.  For example:

Human, I.M. (2021). My input dataset name [Data set]. DataHub. https://doi.org/some-doi-number

### Output data
Reference for each minted data source for your output data.  For example:

Human, I.M. (2021). My output dataset name [Data set]. DataHub. https://doi.org/some-doi-number

## Contributing modeling software
| Model | Version | Repository Link | DOI |
|-------|---------|-----------------|-----|
| model 1 | version | link to code repository | link to DOI dataset |
| model 2 | version | link to code repository | link to DOI dataset |
| component 1 | version | link to code repository | link to DOI dataset |

## Reproduce my experiment
Fill in detailed info here or link to other documentation that is a thorough walkthrough of how to use what is in this repository to reproduce your experiment.


1. Install the software components required to conduct the experiement from [Contributing modeling software](#contributing-modeling-software)
2. Download and install the supporting input data required to conduct the experiement from [Input data](#input-data)
3. Run the following scripts in the `workflow` directory to re-create this experiment:

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `step_one.py` | Script to run the first part of my experiment | `python3 step_one.py -f /path/to/inputdata/file_one.csv` |
| `step_two.py` | Script to run the last part of my experiment | `python3 step_two.py -o /path/to/my/outputdir` |

4. Download and unzip the output data from my experiment [Output data](#output-data)
5. Run the following scripts in the `workflow` directory to compare my outputs to those from the publication

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `compare.py` | Script to compare my outputs to the original | `python3 compare.py --orig /path/to/original/data.csv --new /path/to/new/data.csv` |

## Reproduce my figures
Use the scripts found in the `figures` directory to reproduce the figures used in this publication.

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `generate_figures.py` | Script to generate my figures | `python3 generate_figures.py -i /path/to/inputs -o /path/to/outuptdir` |
